# Profit Sharing Tokens

## ❓ What are Profit Sharing Tokens?

Profit sharing tokens (PST) are built using SmartWeave and they are responsible for sharing the proceeds of any resources on Arweave. That means PSTs help monetize apps or webistes built on Arweave. It's very simple. Each time user interacts with an app, specific amount of ARs is sent to PST holders based on their share. So if a holder owns 50% of the tokens, he will receive 50% of the revenue from the application.

## 💰 How much PSTs do we need to pay?

The amount of PSTs which will be transfered by the user while interacting with the app is specified by developers creating the app. It can be everything - from little payments up to large amounts for significant interactions. It can be fixed amount or percentage of interaction's value.

:::info
If you want to see a code example of the fee distribution to PST holders using SmartWeave method `selectWeightedPstHolder`, check [this PST guide section](https://github.com/ArweaveTeam/SmartWeave/blob/master/CREATE-PST.md).
:::

## ✍️ Example usage

Very interesting usage of PSTs is ownership representation of the revenue from specific items. Imagine a musician producing new album. Users can then buy portions of revenue generated by this album. After musician uploads this album to special platforms on Arweave (Bandplay, ArcLight), PST owners get revenue split based on how much PSTs they share.

:::info
You can find PST guide in the [SmartWeave docs](https://github.com/ArweaveTeam/SmartWeave/blob/master/CREATE-PST.md).

You can read more about PSTs on [ArWiki](https://arwiki.wiki/#/en/profit-sharing-tokens) and on [ArWeave medium](https://arweave.medium.com/profit-sharing-tokens-a-new-incentivization-mechanism-for-an-open-web-1f2532411d6e).

:::
